README: explain the failpoint usage and implementation details (#4)
pingcap/failpoint: README.md

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint)

> An implementation of [failpoints][failpoint] for golang.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An implementation of [failpoints][failpoint] for Golang.
```

[failpoint]: http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=fail

## Features

- Define failpoint in valid Golang code, not comments or anything else
- Failpoint does not have any extra cost

    - Will not take effect on regular logic
    - Will not cause regular code performance regression
    - Failpoint code will not appear in the final binary

> - Failpoint routine is easy to write/read and checked by a compiler

Reviewer: Failpoint routine is easy to write/read and **should be** checked by a compiler?

> - Generated code by failpoint defination is easy to read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generated code by failpoint definition is easy to read
```

> - Will Keep the line number the same (for easy debug)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Will keep the line number the same (for easy debug)
```

- Support parallel tests with context.Context

## Key concepts

- Failpoint

    Faillpoint is a code snippet which only executes in corresponding failpoint is active.
    The closure will never execute if we `failpoint.Disable("failpoint-name-for-demo")`.

    ```go
    var outerVar = "declare in outer scope"
    failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-for-demo", func(val failpoint.Value) {
        fmt.Println("unit-test", val, outerVar)
    })
    ```

- Marker functions

    - It is just an empty function

>         - To hint rewriter to rewrite with equality statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - To hint the rewriter to rewrite with an equality statement
```

Reviewer: What's the meaning of "equality statement"?

>         - Receive some parameters as the rewrite rule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - To receive some parameters as the rewrite rule
```

>         - It will be inline in compile time and emit nothing to binary (zero cost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - It will be inline in the compiling time and emit nothing to binary (zero cost)
```

>         - The closure can access external variables in valid syntax which called capture, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The closure can access external variables in a valid syntax that is called capture, and
```

>         the converted IF statement is still legal because of all of captured - variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        the converted IF statement is still legal because all of captured-variables
```

>         become an outer scope variable access. That’s awesome

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence.

    - It is easy to write/read 

>     - Introduce a compiler check for failpoints which cannot compile in regular mode if failpoint code is invalid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Introduce a compiler check for failpoints which cannot compile in the regular mode if failpoint code is invalid
```

- Marker funtion list

    - `func Inject(fpname string, fpblock func(val Value)) {}`
    - `func Inject(fpname string, fpblock func(ctx context.Context, val Value)) {}`
    - `func Break(label ...string) {}`
    - `func Goto(label string) {}`
    - `func Continue(label ...string) {}`
    - `func Fallthrough() {}`
    - `func Label(label string) {}`

> ## How to inject a failpoint to you program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to inject a failpoint to your program
```

> You can call `failpoint.Inject` to inject a failpoint to the call site, which `failpoint-name` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call `failpoint.Inject` to inject a failpoint to the call site, where `failpoint-name` is
```

used to trigger the failpoint and `failpoint-closure` will be expanded as the body of the IF statement.

```go
failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) {
    fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
})
```

The converted code looks like:

```go
if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
    fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
}
```

The `failpoint.Value` is the value that pass by `failpoint.Enable("failpoint-name", "return(5)")`
which can be ignored.

```go
failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(_ failpoint.Value) {
    fmt.Println("unit-test")
})
```

OR

```go
failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func() {
    fmt.Println("unit-test")
})
```

And the converted code looks like:

```go
if ok, _ := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
    fmt.Println("unit-test")
}
```

> Also, the failpoint closure can be a function which take `context.Context`. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the failpoint closure can be a function which takes `context.Context`. You can
```

> do some customized things with `context.Context` like control whether a failpoint is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do some customized things with `context.Context` like controlling whether a failpoint is
```

> active in parallel tests or other cases. e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
active in parallel tests or other cases. For example,
```

```go
failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(ctx context.Context, val failpoint.Value) {
	fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
})
```

The converted code looks like:

```go
if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name", ctx); ok {
	fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
}
```

Of course you can ignore `context.Context` even if no meaningful because of it will generate the
same code as no `context.Context` parameter. e.g.

```go
failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(_ context.Context, val failpoint.Value) {
	fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
})
```

Becomes

```go
if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
	fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
}
```

You can control a failpoint by failpoint.WithHook

```go
func (s *dmlSuite) TestCRUDParallel() {
    sctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
        return ctx.Value(fpname) != nil // Determine by ctx key
    })
    insertFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
        "insert-record-fp": {},
        "insert-index-fp": {},
        "on-duplicate-fp": {},
    }
    ictx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {

>         _, found := insertFailpoints[fpname] // Only enable some faipoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        _, found := insertFailpoints[fpname] // Only enables some failpoints.
```

        return found
    })
    deleteFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
        "tikv-is-busy-fp": {},
        "fetch-tso-timeout": {},
    }
    dctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {

>         _, found := deleteFailpoints[fpname] // Only disable failpoints 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        _, found := deleteFailpoints[fpname] // Only disables failpoints. 
```

        return !found
    })

>     // ... other dml parallel test cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // ... other DML parallel test cases.
```

    s.RunParallel(buildSelectTests(sctx))
    s.RunParallel(buildInsertTests(ictx))
    s.RunParallel(buildDeleteTests(dctx))
}
```

> If you use failpoint in loop context, maybe you would use ohter marker functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a failpoint in the loop context, maybe you will use other marker functions.
```

```go
failpoint.Label("outer")
for i := 0; i < 100; i++ {
    inner:
        for j := 0; j < 1000; j++ {
            switch rand.Intn(j) + i {
            case j / 5:
                failpoint.Break()
            case j / 7:
                failpoint.Continue("outer")
            case j / 9:
                failpoint.Fallthrough()
            case j / 10:
                failpoint.Goto("outer")
            default:
                failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) {
                    fmt.Println("unit-test", val.(int))
                    if val == j/11 {
                        failpoint.Break("inner")
                    } else {
                        failpoint.Goto("outer")
                    }
                })
        }
    }
}
```

> Which will generate belowing code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code block will generate the following code:
```

```go
outer:
    for i := 0; i < 100; i++ {
    inner:
        for j := 0; j < 1000; j++ {
            switch rand.Intn(j) + i {
            case j / 5:
                break
            case j / 7:
                continue outer
            case j / 9:
                fallthrough
            case j / 10:
                goto outer
            default:
                if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
                    fmt.Println("unit-test", val.(int))
                    if val == j/11 {
                        break inner
                    } else {
                        goto outer
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
```

> You may confused that why don't  we use `label` `break` `continue` `fallthrough` directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may doubt why we do not use `label`, break`, `continue`, and `fallthrough` directly
```

> instead of to use failpoint marker functions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of using failpoint marker functions. 
```

- Unused label will occurred compiler error in compile phrase if a label is just used in
failpoint closure.

> - The `break` `continue` can only be used in loop context, it is not legal golang code 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `break` and `continue` can only be used in the loop context, which is not legal in the Golang code 
```

> if we use it in closure directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if we use them in closure directly.
```

### Some complicated failpoints demo

> - Inject failpoint to IF INITIAL statement or CONDITIONAL expression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inject a failpoint to the IF INITIAL statement or CONDITIONAL expression
```

> ```go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```go
```

> if a, b := func() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if a, b := func() {
```

>     failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) {
```

>         fmt.Println("unit-test", val)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
```

>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        })
```

> }, func() int { return rand.Intn(200) }(); b > func() int {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }, func() int { return rand.Intn(200) }(); b > func() int {
```

>     failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) int {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name", func(val failpoint.Value) int {
```

>         return val.(int)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            return val.(int)
```

>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        })
```

>     return rand.Intn(3000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return rand.Intn(3000)
```

> }() && b < func() int {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }() && b < func() int {
```

>     failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-2", func(val failpoint.Value) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-2", func(val failpoint.Value) {
```

>         return rand.Intn(val.(int))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            return rand.Intn(val.(int))
```

>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        })
```

>     return rand.Intn(6000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return rand.Intn(6000)
```

> }() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }() {
```

>     a()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        a()
```

>     failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-3", func(val failpoint.Value) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-3", func(val failpoint.Value) {
```

>         fmt.Println("unit-test", val)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
```

>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        })
```

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
```

> Will generate something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above bode block will generate something like this:
```

> ```go

Reviewer: Please indent this code block as above.

if a, b := func() {
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
        fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
    }
}, func() int { return rand.Intn(200) }(); b > func() int {
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
        return val.(int)
    }
    return rand.Intn(3000)
}() && b < func() int {
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-2"); ok {
        return rand.Intn(val.(int))
    }
    return rand.Intn(6000)
}() {
    a()
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-3"); ok {
        fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
    }
}
```

> - Inject failpoint to the SELECT statement to make it block one case if failpoint is active

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inject a failpoint to the SELECT statement to make it block one case if the failpoint is active
```

> ```go

Reviewer: Please indent this code block as above.

func (s *StoreService) ExecuteStoreTask() {
    select {
    case <-func() chan *StoreTask {
        failpoint.Inject("priority-fp", func(_ failpoint.Value) {
            return make(chan *StoreTask)
        })
        return s.priorityHighCh
    }():
        fmt.Println("execute high priority task")

    case <- s.priorityNormalCh:
        fmt.Println("execute normal priority task")

    case <- s.priorityLowCh:
        fmt.Println("execute normal low task")
    }
}
```

> Will generate something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above code block will generate something like this:
```

> ```go

Reviewer: Please indent this code block as above shows.

func (s *StoreService) ExecuteStoreTask() {
    select {
    case <-func() chan *StoreTask {
        if ok, _ := failpoint.Eval("priority-fp"); ok {
            return make(chan *StoreTask)
        })
        return s.priorityHighCh
    }():
        fmt.Println("execute high priority task")

    case <- s.priorityNormalCh:
        fmt.Println("execute normal priority task")

    case <- s.priorityLowCh:
        fmt.Println("execute normal low task")
    }
}
```

- Inject a failpoint to dynamically extend SWITCH CASE arms

> ```go

Reviewer: ditto

switch opType := operator.Type(); {
case opType == "balance-leader":
    fmt.Println("create balance leader steps")

case opType == "balance-region":
    fmt.Println("create balance region steps")

case opType == "scatter-region":
    fmt.Println("create scatter region steps")

case func() bool {
    failpoint.Inject("dynamic-op-type", func(val failpoint.Value) bool {
        return strings.Contains(val.(string), opType)
    })
    return false
}():
    fmt.Println("do something")

default:
    panic("unsupported operator type")
}
```

> Will generate something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above code block will generate something like this:
```

> ```go

Reviewer: Please indent this code block as above.

switch opType := operator.Type(); {
case opType == "balance-leader":
    fmt.Println("create balance leader steps")

case opType == "balance-region":
    fmt.Println("create balance region steps")

case opType == "scatter-region":
    fmt.Println("create scatter region steps")

case func() bool {
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval"dynamic-op-type"); ok {
        return strings.Contains(val.(string), opType)
    })
    return false
}():
    fmt.Println("do something")

default:
    panic("unsupported operator type")
}
```

> - More complicated failpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- More complicated failpoints
```

    - There are more complicated failpoint sites that can be injected to
        - for the loop INITIAL statement, CONDITIONAL expression and POST statement
        - for the RANGE statement
        - SWITCH INITIAL statement
        - …
    - Anywhere you can write a function literal

## Implementation details

> 

Reviewer: If the following shows the implementation steps in order, it is better to use an ordered list (1, 2, 3, 4) here.

- Define a group of marker functions

> - Parse imports and prune a source file which does not import failpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Parse imports and prune a source file which does not import a failpoint
```

- Traverse AST to find marker function calls

> - Marker function call will be rewritten with an IF statement, which calls failpoint.Eval to determine whether a failpoint is active and executes failpoint code if the failpoint is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Marker function calls will be rewritten with an IF statement, which calls failpoint.Eval to determine whether a failpoint is active and executes failpoint code if the failpoint is enabled
```

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint)

An implementation of [failpoints][failpoint] for Golang.

[failpoint]: http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=fail

> ## Features

Reviewer 2: Design Principle is better?

- Define failpoint in valid Golang code, not comments or anything else
- Failpoint does not have any extra cost

    - Will not take effect on regular logic
    - Will not cause regular code performance regression
    - Failpoint code will not appear in the final binary

- Failpoint routine is easy to write/read and should be checked by a compiler

> - Generated code by failpoint definition is easy to read

Reviewer 2: easy to read --> readable?

> - Will keep the line number the same (for easy debug)

Reviewer 2: keep the line numbers same with the injecting codes(easier to debug)

> - Support parallel tests with context.Context

Reviewer 2: parallel --> concurrent?

Author: I think parallel is better.

    })
    ```

    Becomes

    ```go
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
        fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
    }
    ```

- You can control a failpoint by failpoint.WithHook

    ```go
    func (s *dmlSuite) TestCRUDParallel() {
        sctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            return ctx.Value(fpname) != nil // Determine by ctx key
        })
        insertFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
            "insert-record-fp": {},
            "insert-index-fp": {},
            "on-duplicate-fp": {},
        }
        ictx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            _, found := insertFailpoints[fpname] // Only enables some failpoints.
            return found
        })
        deleteFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
            "tikv-is-busy-fp": {},
            "fetch-tso-timeout": {},
        }
        dctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            _, found := deleteFailpoints[fpname] // Only disables failpoints. 
            return !found
        })

>         // ... other DML parallel test cases.

Reviewer: ?

                        fmt.Println("unit-test", val.(int))
                        if val == j/11 {
                            failpoint.Break("inner")
                        } else {
                            failpoint.Goto("outer")
                        }
                    })
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The above code block will generate the following code:

    ```go
    outer:
        for i := 0; i < 100; i++ {
        inner:
            for j := 0; j < 1000; j++ {
                switch rand.Intn(j) + i {
                case j / 5:
                    break
                case j / 7:
                    continue outer
                case j / 9:
                    fallthrough
                case j / 10:
                    goto outer
                default:
                    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
                        fmt.Println("unit-test", val.(int))
                        if val == j/11 {
                            break inner
                        } else {
                            goto outer
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    ```

> - You may doubt why we do not use `label`, break`, `continue`, and `fallthrough` directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You may doubt why we do not use `label`, `break`, `continue`, and `fallthrough` directly
```

instead of using failpoint marker functions. 

>     - Any unused symbol like ident, label is not permit in Golang. It will be invalid if some

Reviewer: ?

            return val.(int)
        })
        return rand.Intn(3000)
    }() && b < func() int {
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-2", func(val failpoint.Value) {
            return rand.Intn(val.(int))
        })
        return rand.Intn(6000)
    }() {
        a()
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-3", func(val failpoint.Value) {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        })
    }
    ```

    The above bode block will generate something like this:

    ```go
    if a, b := func() {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        }
    }, func() int { return rand.Intn(200) }(); b > func() int {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
            return val.(int)
        }
        return rand.Intn(3000)
    }() && b < func() int {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-2"); ok {
            return rand.Intn(val.(int))
        }
        return rand.Intn(6000)
    }() {
        a()
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-3"); ok {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        }
    }
    ```

> - Inject a failpoint to the SELECT statement to make it block one case if the failpoint is active

Reviewer: one case?

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pingcap/failpoint)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pingcap/failpoint)

An implementation of [failpoints][failpoint] for Golang.

[failpoint]: http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=fail

## Design principles

- Define failpoint in valid Golang code, not comments or anything else
- Failpoint does not have any extra cost

    - Will not take effect on regular logic
    - Will not cause regular code performance regression
    - Failpoint code will not appear in the final binary

- Failpoint routine is writable/readable and should be checked by a compiler
- Generated code by failpoint definition is easy to read
- Keep the line numbers same with the injecting codes(easier to debug)
- Support parallel tests with context.Context

## Key concepts

- Failpoint

    Faillpoint is a code snippet which only executes in corresponding failpoint is active.

>     The closure will never execute if we `failpoint.Disable("failpoint-name-for-demo")`.

Reviewer 2: if we disable it by `failpoint.Disable("failpoint-name-for-demo")`

    })
    ```

    Becomes

    ```go
    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name", nil); ok {
        fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
    }
    ```

- You can control a failpoint by failpoint.WithHook

    ```go
    func (s *dmlSuite) TestCRUDParallel() {
        sctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            return ctx.Value(fpname) != nil // Determine by ctx key
        })
        insertFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
            "insert-record-fp": {},
            "insert-index-fp": {},
            "on-duplicate-fp": {},
        }
        ictx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            _, found := insertFailpoints[fpname] // Only enables some failpoints.
            return found
        })
        deleteFailpoints = map[string]struct{} {
            "tikv-is-busy-fp": {},
            "fetch-tso-timeout": {},
        }
        dctx := failpoint.WithHook(context.Backgroud(), func(ctx context.Context, fpname string) bool {
            _, found := deleteFailpoints[fpname] // Only disables failpoints. 
            return !found
        })

>         // ... other DML parallel test cases.

Author: ```suggestion
        // other DML parallel test cases.
```

                        } else {
                            failpoint.Goto("outer")
                        }
                    })
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The above code block will generate the following code:

    ```go
    outer:
        for i := 0; i < 100; i++ {
        inner:
            for j := 0; j < 1000; j++ {
                switch rand.Intn(j) + i {
                case j / 5:
                    break
                case j / 7:
                    continue outer
                case j / 9:
                    fallthrough
                case j / 10:
                    goto outer
                default:
                    if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
                        fmt.Println("unit-test", val.(int))
                        if val == j/11 {
                            break inner
                        } else {
                            goto outer
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    ```

- You may doubt why we do not use `label`, break`, `continue`, and `fallthrough` directly
instead of using failpoint marker functions. 

>     - Any unused symbol like ident, label is not permit in Golang. It will be invalid if some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Any unused symbol like an ident or a label is not permitted in Golang. It will be invalid if some
```

>     label only used in the failpoint closure. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    label is only used in the failpoint closure. For example,
```

            return val.(int)
        })
        return rand.Intn(3000)
    }() && b < func() int {
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-2", func(val failpoint.Value) {
            return rand.Intn(val.(int))
        })
        return rand.Intn(6000)
    }() {
        a()
        failpoint.Inject("failpoint-name-3", func(val failpoint.Value) {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        })
    }
    ```

    The above bode block will generate something like this:

    ```go
    if a, b := func() {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        }
    }, func() int { return rand.Intn(200) }(); b > func() int {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name"); ok {
            return val.(int)
        }
        return rand.Intn(3000)
    }() && b < func() int {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-2"); ok {
            return rand.Intn(val.(int))
        }
        return rand.Intn(6000)
    }() {
        a()
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval("failpoint-name-3"); ok {
            fmt.Println("unit-test", val)
        }
    }
    ```

> - Inject a failpoint to the SELECT statement to make it block one case if the failpoint is active

Author: ```suggestion
- Inject a failpoint to the SELECT statement to make it block one CASE if the failpoint is active
```

            return strings.Contains(val.(string), opType)
        })
        return false
    }():
        fmt.Println("do something")

    default:
        panic("unsupported operator type")
    }
    ```

    The above code block will generate something like this:

    ```go
    switch opType := operator.Type(); {
    case opType == "balance-leader":
        fmt.Println("create balance leader steps")

    case opType == "balance-region":
        fmt.Println("create balance region steps")

    case opType == "scatter-region":
        fmt.Println("create scatter region steps")

    case func() bool {
        if ok, val := failpoint.Eval"dynamic-op-type"); ok {
            return strings.Contains(val.(string), opType)
        })
        return false
    }():
        fmt.Println("do something")

    default:
        panic("unsupported operator type")
    }
    ```

- More complicated failpoints

    - There are more complicated failpoint sites that can be injected to
        - for the loop INITIAL statement, CONDITIONAL expression and POST statement
        - for the RANGE statement
        - SWITCH INITIAL statement
        - …

>     - Anywhere you can write a function literal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Anywhere you can call a function
```
